general/introduction_competitive_programming.md, before:

# Competitive Programming

## What is Competitive Programming?

**Competitive Programming** is literally a sport, where you (or your team) use programming skills to write code for some really interesting and difficult problems, and in the process try to win a particular competition.
Unlike other scenarios of programming, Competitive Programming requires you to write code under various restrictions, like execution time and memory limits for your program. Also, you are required to solve the maximum number of problems in the stipulated time.

These and all other restrictions make Competitive Programming a great form of mind sport and an excellent way of improving your programming skills.

### 1. The ACM-IPC International Collegiate Programming Contest

The ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC) traces its roots to a competition held at Texas A&M in 1970 hosted by the Alpha Chapter of the UPE Computer Science Honor Society. The contest fosters creativity, teamwork, and innovation in building new software programs, and enables students to test their ability to perform under pressure. Quite simply, it is the oldest, largest, and most prestigious programming contest in the world.
More Info About The ACM-IPC International Collegiate Programming Contest (https://icpc.baylor.edu/)

### 2. IEEEXtreme

IEEEXtreme (often abbreviated as Xtreme) is an annual hackathon and competitive programming challenge in which teams of IEEE Student members, often supported by an IEEE Student Branch and proctored by an IEEE member, compete in a 24-hour time span against each other to solve a set of programming problems. The competition is underwritten and coordinated by IEEE's Membership and Geographic Activities department and is often supported by partnering sponsors, like the IEEE Computer Society.
More Info about IEEEXtreme (https://www.ieee.org/membership/students/competitions/xtreme/index.html)

### 3. TopCoder

TopCoder is fast becoming the major league for programming competitions. TopCoder brings members together once a week to compete online (Single Round Match) and twice a year both online and on location (Tournaments).
The top-ranked users on TopCoder are very good competitive programmers and regularly compete in programming competitions.
More Info about TopCoder (https://www.topcoder.com/)

### 4. Google Code Jam

Google Code Jam is an annual programming competition in which professional and student programmers are asked to solve complex algorithmic challenges in a limited amount of time, using the programming language of their choice. This contest starts online and programmers can practice by trying out problems from years.
More Info about Google Code Jam (https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam)

## Why should you start Competitive Programming?

Programming contests offer numerous benefits for developers interested in practice their coding skills. Sometimes these benefits can get lost in the online chatter about competitive programming. Critics grumble that contests teach bad habits, that people obsess over ratings, and that programmers should be working on real projects rather than puzzles. There’s some truth to each of these criticisms, but they don’t have to apply to you. The key to getting the most out of time spent studying competitive programming is to be clear about your goals. With that in mind, here are some reasons why competitive programming is a good way to spend your free time.

#### 1. It’s Fun

Like joining an amateur sports league to get exercise, participating in programming competitions to get better at programming provides built-in motivation. Keeping an eye on the leaderboards and looking forward to facing off against your peers is a way to encourage consistent practice. Some people take the position that programmers should participate in competitions only for entertainment. I don’t agree with that, but the fun certainly doesn’t hurt.

#### 2. Enhances problem-solving skills

As we all know, Competitive Programming is the brain game, which tests your basic to advanced problem-solving skills. The ability to solve problems is a basic life skill and is essential to our day-to-day lives, at home, at school, and at work. Good problem-solving skills empower you not only in your personal life but are critical in your professional life. Competitive Programming teaches you to find the easiest solution in the quickest possible way. CP enhances your problem-solving and debugging skills giving you real-time fun. It’s brain-sport. As you start solving harder and harder problems in live-contests your analytical and rational thinking intensifies.

#### 3. You’ll really learn your chosen language

It’s common knowledge among learners of human (natural) languages that the best way to get to intermediate level in a new language is immersion: once you know the bare minimum, put yourself in a situation where you have no choice but to use the language. Travel to a country where the language is spoken, and hang out with the locals. The analogous plan for really learning a programming language is to use it in a contest. There won’t be any time to consult your phrasebook or dictionary, so you’ll find out soon enough if you’re actually fluent. If you’re not, then contests will push you to get there, whether by making you use the correct fingers to hit those special characters, learning the syntax for common library methods, or just writing a lot more code.
(we will talk more about how to choose the best language for you in How to Start Competitive Programming section)

#### 4. The participant becomes a Team Player

Many contests require team participation. You can create a team of 4. Individual members of a team that can exist in various dimensions like age, nationality, etc. So, you actually learn how to work in a team. You learn how to show a genuine commitment to the team and how to contribute a bit in the team’s work. Develop a team mentality. Think “we,” not “me.”

##### Watch this video by Hasan Al Hamsh

[![](https://img.youtube.com/vi/JSmoa1iWWpk/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JSmoa1iWWpk)

## How to Prepare Yourself for Competitive Programming

Competitive Programming contests majorly occur online where the programmer is expected to solve the given set of problems as fast as possible and code his/her solutions according to the given constraints. These programmers are termed as competitive programmers.
There are plenty of platforms for practicing this sport.

##### Listing down some of the platforms in random order.

- SPOJ
- CodeChef
- Codeforces
- TopCoder
- Hackerearth
- Hackerrank

**The only thing you need to know to begin is a programming language the grader accepts. ACM-ICPC grader accepts C/C++, Java, and Python. Almost all graders you’ll encounter will accept these languages (unless if a problem is made for a particular language).**
**C++** is by far the most popular language of choice for competitive programmers across the world as it is usually faster than Java and Python, and most of the resources are available in C++. C++ also has a vast library called STL(Standard Template Library) which makes life a lot easier for competitive coders. GNU/G++ is the standard compiler for C++ and C++ 14 is the latest updated version of C++ available on online judges.

**Python** is an amazingly user-friendly language as its codes are shorter and more concise than those in other languages and are especially used by most programmers in questions where there is a chance of integer overflow as python allows one to code without any limit on the integer value. The only flaw that python possesses though is of being slow. In comparison to C/C++ and Java, it is quite slow and thus on online coding platforms, the time limit for Python is usually higher than that of C++. To improve the speed of code execution for input/output intensive problems, like C++ python too has various input and output procedures. Normally one uses raw_input() (Python 2.7)/ input() (Python 3.5) to read and print to write. Though one can make use of sys.stdin and stdout.write() which are faster as compared to the normal input/output formats. For more information regarding fast i/o in python, you can refer to here.

**Java** is an Object-Oriented Programming Language. It is the next most popular programming language after C/C++ in competitive coding. It too has many libraries for data structures called Collections in JAVA. It is a bit slower than C/C++. Fetching input using Scanner class, many times, leads to a TLE verdict. BufferedReader can be used for faster input. For its complete usage, you can refer from here. Java has the BigInteger library to handle the numbers larger than 64-bit Integers but it is cumbersome to use and problems involving large numbers can generally be solved using some math in C++.

#### Get engaged in the local community

Join `ACM - JCPC` (https://www.facebook.com/groups/357325854467689/) group on facebook,
Also check out the national contests for jordan on Facebook 'https://www.facebook.com/JordanCPC/' and `https://www.facebook.com/JordanianOI/'.

Good luck with your journey and we wish you the best of luck.

**Authors**:

- Mohammad AbuAboud.

- Abdul-Rahman Khalil.

- Ayoub AbuAsbeh.

- Ahmad Taha

**Video Credits**:

- Hasan Al Hamsh

Commit message:

add Codeforces & hakercup to intro

general/introduction_competitive_programming.md, after:

# Competitive Programming

## What is Competitive Programming?

**Competitive Programming** is literally a sport, where you (or your team) use programming skills to write code for some really interesting and difficult problems, and in the process try to win a particular competition.
Unlike other scenarios of programming, Competitive Programming requires you to write code under various restrictions, like execution time and memory limits for your program. Also, you are required to solve the maximum number of problems in the stipulated time.

These and all other restrictions make Competitive Programming a great form of mind sport and an excellent way of improving your programming skills.

### 1. The ACM-IPC International Collegiate Programming Contest

The ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC) traces its roots to a competition held at Texas A&M in 1970 hosted by the Alpha Chapter of the UPE Computer Science Honor Society. The contest fosters creativity, teamwork, and innovation in building new software programs, and enables students to test their ability to perform under pressure. Quite simply, it is the oldest, largest, and most prestigious programming contest in the world.
More Info About The ACM-IPC International Collegiate Programming Contest (https://icpc.baylor.edu/)

### 2. IEEEXtreme

IEEEXtreme (often abbreviated as Xtreme) is an annual hackathon and competitive programming challenge in which teams of IEEE Student members, often supported by an IEEE Student Branch and proctored by an IEEE member, compete in a 24-hour time span against each other to solve a set of programming problems. The competition is underwritten and coordinated by IEEE's Membership and Geographic Activities department and is often supported by partnering sponsors, like the IEEE Computer Society.
More Info about IEEEXtreme (https://www.ieee.org/membership/students/competitions/xtreme/index.html)

### 3. CodeForces

Codeforces is a project joining people interested in and taking part in programming contests. On one hand, Codeforces is a social network dedicated to programming and programming contests. On the other hand, it is a platform where contests are held regularly, the participant's skills are reflected by their rating and the former contests can be used to prepare. Codeforces constantly develops and we plan to improve the platform to give the participants the opportunity to organize their own contests, filling the project with learning content, developing Codeforces as a training and learning platform.
More Info about CodeForces (https://www.codeforces.com/help)

### 4. Google Code Jam

Google Code Jam is an annual programming competition in which professional and student programmers are asked to solve complex algorithmic challenges in a limited amount of time, using the programming language of their choice. This contest starts online and programmers can practice by trying out problems from years.
More Info about Google Code Jam (https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam)

### 5. Facebook Hacker cup

Facebook hacker cup is an annual algorithmic programming contest organized by Facebook. Be it students, professionals or experts it attracts numerous programming enthusiasts from all around the globe. Top contenders are eligible for the interview call from Facebook for Software Developer role.
Facebook Hacker cup is particularly known for its different environment used for Judging and the variety of problems. It is conducted in many rounds where the difficulty of algorithmic challenges keep on increasing.
More Info about Facebook Hacker cup (https://www.facebook.com/hackercup/)

## Why should you start Competitive Programming?

Programming contests offer numerous benefits for developers interested in practice their coding skills. Sometimes these benefits can get lost in the online chatter about competitive programming. Critics grumble that contests teach bad habits, that people obsess over ratings, and that programmers should be working on real projects rather than puzzles. There’s some truth to each of these criticisms, but they don’t have to apply to you. The key to getting the most out of time spent studying competitive programming is to be clear about your goals. With that in mind, here are some reasons why competitive programming is a good way to spend your free time.

#### 1. It’s Fun

Like joining an amateur sports league to get exercise, participating in programming competitions to get better at programming provides built-in motivation. Keeping an eye on the leaderboards and looking forward to facing off against your peers is a way to encourage consistent practice. Some people take the position that programmers should participate in competitions only for entertainment. I don’t agree with that, but the fun certainly doesn’t hurt.

#### 2. Enhances problem-solving skills

As we all know, Competitive Programming is the brain game, which tests your basic to advanced problem-solving skills. The ability to solve problems is a basic life skill and is essential to our day-to-day lives, at home, at school, and at work. Good problem-solving skills empower you not only in your personal life but are critical in your professional life. Competitive Programming teaches you to find the easiest solution in the quickest possible way. CP enhances your problem-solving and debugging skills giving you real-time fun. It’s brain-sport. As you start solving harder and harder problems in live-contests your analytical and rational thinking intensifies.

#### 3. You’ll really learn your chosen language

It’s common knowledge among learners of human (natural) languages that the best way to get to intermediate level in a new language is immersion: once you know the bare minimum, put yourself in a situation where you have no choice but to use the language. Travel to a country where the language is spoken, and hang out with the locals. The analogous plan for really learning a programming language is to use it in a contest. There won’t be any time to consult your phrasebook or dictionary, so you’ll find out soon enough if you’re actually fluent. If you’re not, then contests will push you to get there, whether by making you use the correct fingers to hit those special characters, learning the syntax for common library methods, or just writing a lot more code.
(we will talk more about how to choose the best language for you in How to Start Competitive Programming section)

#### 4. The participant becomes a Team Player

Many contests require team participation. You can create a team of 4. Individual members of a team that can exist in various dimensions like age, nationality, etc. So, you actually learn how to work in a team. You learn how to show a genuine commitment to the team and how to contribute a bit in the team’s work. Develop a team mentality. Think “we,” not “me.”

##### Watch this video by Hasan Al Hamsh

[![](https://img.youtube.com/vi/JSmoa1iWWpk/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JSmoa1iWWpk)

## How to Prepare Yourself for Competitive Programming

Competitive Programming contests majorly occur online where the programmer is expected to solve the given set of problems as fast as possible and code his/her solutions according to the given constraints. These programmers are termed as competitive programmers.
There are plenty of platforms for practicing this sport.

##### Listing down some of the platforms in random order.

- SPOJ
- CodeChef
- Codeforces
- Hackerearth
- Hackerrank

**The only thing you need to know to begin is a programming language the grader accepts. ACM-ICPC grader accepts C/C++, Java, and Python. Almost all graders you’ll encounter will accept these languages (unless if a problem is made for a particular language).**
**C++** is by far the most popular language of choice for competitive programmers across the world as it is usually faster than Java and Python, and most of the resources are available in C++. C++ also has a vast library called STL(Standard Template Library) which makes life a lot easier for competitive coders. GNU/G++ is the standard compiler for C++ and C++ 14 is the latest updated version of C++ available on online judges.

**Python** is an amazingly user-friendly language as its codes are shorter and more concise than those in other languages and are especially used by most programmers in questions where there is a chance of integer overflow as python allows one to code without any limit on the integer value. The only flaw that python possesses though is of being slow. In comparison to C/C++ and Java, it is quite slow and thus on online coding platforms, the time limit for Python is usually higher than that of C++. To improve the speed of code execution for input/output intensive problems, like C++ python too has various input and output procedures. Normally one uses raw_input() (Python 2.7)/ input() (Python 3.5) to read and print to write. Though one can make use of sys.stdin and stdout.write() which are faster as compared to the normal input/output formats. For more information regarding fast i/o in python, you can refer to here.

**Java** is an Object-Oriented Programming Language. It is the next most popular programming language after C/C++ in competitive coding. It too has many libraries for data structures called Collections in JAVA. It is a bit slower than C/C++. Fetching input using Scanner class, many times, leads to a TLE verdict. BufferedReader can be used for faster input. For its complete usage, you can refer from here. Java has the BigInteger library to handle the numbers larger than 64-bit Integers but it is cumbersome to use and problems involving large numbers can generally be solved using some math in C++.

#### Get engaged in the local community

Join `ACM - JCPC` (https://www.facebook.com/groups/357325854467689/) group on facebook,
Also check out the national contests for jordan on Facebook 'https://www.facebook.com/JordanCPC/' and `https://www.facebook.com/JordanianOI/'.

Good luck with your journey and we wish you the best of luck.

**Authors**:

- Mohammad AbuAboud.

- Abdul-Rahman Khalil.

- Ayoub AbuAsbeh.

- Ahmad Taha

**Video Credits**:

- Hasan Al Hamsh
